FIA Glossary


FIA Terms
Digital Self-Defense Score: Pre-assessment risk score
	Use Case: To place user into the most relevant booths/resources

Booth Recommendation: Personalized session/activity suggestions derived from survey
answers and scoring logic.
	Use Case: To ensure users are getting the most relevant recommendations so they can maximize their time

Canvas Badges / Canvas Credentials: Platform FIA uses to issue and manage digital badges
for completed actions.
	Use Case: Allow the user to see which actions they have completed in order to keep track of what needs to be completed.

Badge Passport: Paper/backup record of earned badges.
	Use Case: Ensure that completed actions continue to be stored even when online systems are unavailable so no records are lost.

Backpack: Participant’s digital repository for storing and viewing their badges.
	Use Case: Have an easily identifiable and accessible place for users to track their progress.

Gamified Learning: FIA’s engagement layer using badges/points.
	Use Case: To enhance and reinforce protective behaviors and to encourage the learning process.

Trauma-Informed Design: FIA’s UX approach that prioritizes safety, control, and clear,
non-alarming guidance.
	Use Case: To ensure users feel safe and secure while accessing FIA resources in order to promote a safer and more accessible environment.

Safe Space Moderation: FIA’s norms and enforcement to keep chats/events respectful and
protective.
	Use Case: To ensure users feel safe in FIA spaces, especially with sensitive topics and information.

Partner Enablement: Materials and processes that make adopting FIA low-lift for campuses
and sponsors.
	Use Case: Campuses and sponsors will be able to have the highest outcome with FIA, without having to dedicate too much of their own resources and time. 

Post-Event Follow-Up: FIA’s after-action emails, surveys, and reports to evidence outcomes
and next steps.
	Use Case: Ensure users can refer back to past events and work on what they’ve learned in the real world.

Always-On Chatbot: FIA’s supportive assistant for just-in-time nudges, explanations, and
escalation paths.
	Use Case: Ensure users have immediate access to assistance.




























General Cybersecurity Terms
Phishing: Deceptive messages that trick users into revealing data or installing malware.
	Use Case: To help users identify phishing in their personal accounts

Deepfake: AI-generated media impersonating a real person to mislead or coerce.Voice Clone: AI-replicated speech used for scams and impersonation (e.g., vishing).
	Use Case: To help users identify this type of media when they come across it.

AI Catfishing: Synthetic or AI-amplified personas used for manipulation or fraud.
	Use Case: To help users identify this type of manipulation.

OAuth Scam: Abuse of “Sign in with…” permissions to gain unauthorized account access.
	Use Case: To teach users how to review app permissions to protect their data

Spyware: Software that secretly monitors activity and collects data from a device.
	Use Case: To help users identify when they are being monitored and avoid it.

Stalkerware: Spyware used for surveillance and control in intimate or targeted contexts.
	Use Case: To help at-risk users identify if they could be a target and what to do to prevent it.

Two-Factor Authentication (2FA): Login method requiring a second proof (code, key, prompt).
	Use Case: To help users understand the importance of security and security controls.

Password Manager: Tool that generates and stores strong, unique credentials.
	Use Case: To help users have more secure accounts with strong passwords.

Digital Footprint: The trail of data a person leaves across apps, sites, and services.
	Use Case: To help users understand the visibility of their actions, especially to outsiders.

Data Broker: Company that aggregates and sells personal information from many sources.
	Use Case: To help users to understand who could potentially have access to their information and what they do with that information.

Breach Check: Lookup to see if personal data appeared in known security breaches.
	Use Case: To aid users in identifying which accounts are at risk, and allow them to quickly fix the security issues.

Privacy Audit: Systematic review of settings/permissions to reduce exposure.
	Use Case: To help users strengthen their online security.

Secure Wi-Fi / VPN: Encrypted network use (e.g., a VPN) to protect traffic, especially on
public Wi-Fi.
	Use Case: To inform users of alternate options for security, and to ensure they have knowledge of what to do on public or secure networks.






* when these words appear in the app, create a link to a page that has glossary terms.
